# GTE: A Graph Learning Framework for Prediction of T-cell Receptors and Epitopes Binding Specificity

Welcome to GTE, a powerful Graph Learning Framework designed for the prediction of T-cell Receptors and Epitopes binding specificity.


## Folder Structure

The project's folder structure is as follows:

- **models** folder:

  The 'models' folder contains saved models generated by GTE. It includes models for four different datasets, divided into RandomTCR and StrictTCR partitions, each with results for individual folds. In total, you will find 40 models.

  The naming convention for model files is as follows: `XXXXX_0123_4`, where `XXXXX` represents the dataset name, `0123` represents the fold used for training, and `4` indicates that the model is used for testing.

- **processed_data** folder:

  This folder contains the raw data for each dataset and the pre-processed 5-fold data. These data are used for training and testing the models.

- **results** folder:

  In this folder, we store the model's predictions on the datasets. These results can help us analyze model performance and generate further visualizations and reports.

## Quick Start

1. **Create a Conda Environment**:

   Start by creating a Conda environment with Python 3.11. If you haven't already installed Conda, you can get it from [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual).

   ```shell
   conda create -n GTE python=3.11
   ```

   Activate the environment:

   ```shell
   conda activate GTE
   ```

2. **Install Dependencies**:

   Use pip to install the required packages listed in the requirements.txt file.

   ```shell
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **How to Run**:

   To quickly run the program, use the following command:

   ```shell
   python inference.py --split RandomTCR --dataset pMTnet
   ```

   Available options:

   - `--split`:
     - Default: "RandomTCR"
     - Choices: ["RandomTCR", "StrictTCR"]

   - `--dataset`:
     - Default: "pMTnet"
     - Choices: ["McPAS", "pMTnet", "VDJdb", "TEINet"]

4. **Example Output**:
    ```shell
    You chose the dataset: pMTnet
    The split method is: RandomTCR
    Fold: 0, AUC: 0.9113, AUPR: 0.6501
    Fold: 1, AUC: 0.9098, AUPR: 0.6438
    Fold: 2, AUC: 0.9079, AUPR: 0.6438
    Fold: 3, AUC: 0.9077, AUPR: 0.6404
    Fold: 4, AUC: 0.9111, AUPR: 0.6512
    ```

4. **Additional Information**:

   For more details and customization options, please refer to ours paper.
Have fun exploring the GTE framework!
